Docs improvements (#961)
anatawa12/AvatarOptimizer: .docs/content/docs/basic-consept/index.md

---
weight: 1
title: "Basic Concepts"
---

# Basic Concepts of Avatar Optimizer {#basic-concepts}

> This page explains the basic concepts of Avatar Optimizer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes the basic concepts of Avatar Optimizer.
```

## What is Avatar Optimizer? {#what-is-avatar-optimizer}

Avatar Optimizer is a tool that helps you optimize your avatar.

> This tool is initially designed for VRChat avatars, but it might be used for other Avatars supported by [NDMF].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tool is initially designed for VRChat avatars, but it might be usable for other Avatars supported by [NDMF].
```
かもしれない?

> Non-VRChat avatar support is completely community-based and may not be supported by the Avatar Optimizer team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Non-VRChat avatar support is completely community-based and may not be supported by Avatar Optimizer dev team.
```
ここのtheは必要? (必要かもしれない)

Author: the多分あったほうがいいと思う
```suggestion
Non-VRChat avatar support is completely community-based and may not be supported by the Avatar Optimizer dev team.
```

## What is the goal of Avatar Optimizer? {#what-is-the-goal-of-avatar-optimizer}

This tool is designed to help you optimize your avatar in performance without affecting the appearance so much.\

> This tool is not designed to make change behavior of the avatar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is not intended to make changes of the avatar behavior.
```

> All non-configured changes in the behavior of the avatar is treated as a bug, even if it might be useful some use cases.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All non-configured changes in the avatar behavior is treated as a bug, even if it might be useful in some use cases.\
```

> In some cases, we may put off the bug since it does not affects much for most use cases.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, we may put off the bug since it does not affect so much for most use cases.\
```

However, the buggy behavior may not be considered in other components.

> For example, MergeSkinnedMesh in 1.7.x or older merges BlendShapes.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `AAO Merge Skinned Mesh` component in 1.7.x or older merges BlendShapes which have the same name.\
```

> This behavior is treated as bug since this makes impossibe to animate the BlendShapes separately.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior is treated as a bug since this makes impossible to animate them separately.\
```

> We may use this bug to sync the blendShape animation of an Skinned Mesh Renderer with another Skinned Mesh Renderer.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may use this bug to sync the BlendShape animation of an Skinned Mesh Renderer with one of another Skinned Mesh Renderer.\
```

However, this is not supported behavior and some other components may break the behavior.\

> For example, `Automatically Freeze BlendShape` in Trace and Optimize will freezes the blendShapes that might be merged by Merge Skinned Mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `Automatically Freeze BlendShape` in `AAO Trace and Optimize` component will freezes the BlendShapes which might be animated with this buggy behavior by being merged by `AAO Merge Skinned Mesh` component.
```

## How is the behavior of Avatar Optimizer stable for future versions? {#behavior-stability}

> The Avatar Optimizer uses the [Semantic Versioning] for versioning and mostly applies the rules of Semantic Versioning to the behavior of the components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avatar Optimizer uses the [Semantic Versioning] for versioning and mostly applies the rules of Semantic Versioning to the behavior of the components.
```

We guarantee that the behavior of already added components will not be changed in the same major version.\

> However, we may add new features for existing component types and behavior of newly added components may be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we may add new features for existing component and the behavior of newly added components may be changed.
```

Author: "existing component"というと "already added components" のこと指してると勘違いされる気がしてtypesをつけてるので何かしらしたい

Reviewer: component kindが存在するので紛らわしい気がした

Reviewer: already implemented component

Reviewer: とか?

Author: "already implemented component"、よさそう

Author: ```suggestion
However, we may add new features for already implemented component and the behavior of newly added components may be changed.
```

> In some bugs, fixing the bug may change the behavior of the component widely.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some bugs, fixing them may change the behavior of the component widely.\
```

> To fix such bugs, we usually add new flag to enable the new behavior.\

Reviewer: flag or option

Author: 技術屋としてはflagがしっくり来てる

By making the flag disabled by default for existing components, we keep the behavior of the existing components and by making the flag enabled by default for newly added components, we fix the bug for new components.

> There are few exception for this behavior stability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are few exceptions for this behavior stability.
```

- The features only for debugging the components are not guaranteed to follow the rules above.\

>   For example, Advanced Options on the Trace and Optimize might be changed in any version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, `Advanced Options` on `AAO Trace and Optimize` component might be changed in any version.
```

- The features marked as experimental are not guaranteed to follow the rules above.

> - The behavior of `Trace and Optimize` component might be changed by implementing new optimization.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The behavior of `AAO Trace and Optimize` component might be changed by implementing new optimization.\
```

>   However, the default settings of `Trace and Optimize` component will never change the behavior of your avatar, so changes must not affect the avatar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  However, the default settings of `AAO Trace and Optimize` component will never change the behavior and appearance of your avatar, so changes must not affect the avatar.
```

Reviewer: appearanceもbehaviorの一種として見做してます? それならand appearanceは要らないです

Author: 別途書いたほうが明確ではあるので書いていいと思う。他の場所で behaviorでappearanceを含む意味で書いてること結構あると思うけど

Reviewer: じゃあFAQの方のT&Oのところもbehaviorだけになってたので、and appearance足さないとですね(タイトルと内容で2箇所ぐらいはあるはず?)
日本語の方には入ってるはず

>   (If your avatar behavior is changed by the `Trace and Optimize` component, please report it as a bug.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When you encountered any unnatural or strange behavior other than these exceptions, please see [FAQ] first.
```

[NDMF]: https://ndmf.nadena.dev/

> [Semantic Versioning]: https://semver.org/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Semantic Versioning]: https://semver.org/
[FAQ]: ../faq/
```
